>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so let's go ahead and
move on to my next example which
has to do with navigation bars.
And this is one of my favorite things
to do when talking about the box model
because we got a lot of boxes
going on in navigation bars.
So if you scroll through your notes, there
we, go styling nav bars in a horizontal
and vertical direction, so that's about
three-quarters of the way down the page.
And we'll start with
vertical navigation bars, so
go on ahead and
open up the code pen for that.
>> Jen Kramer: So we're gonna
start on vertical navigation bars.
Anyone wanna make a comment on
the HTML that we're starting with?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: They all
go to the same place.
>> Jen Kramer: They all go to
the same place, that is true,
it is not much of a navigation bar.
[LAUGH] They all go absolutely nowhere.
They're just links that go nowhere.
Yeah, what else?
>> Speaker 3: Vertically aligned
instead of horizontally?
>> Jen Kramer: These are vertical to
start with because these are the default
browser styling.
And we've marked up our
navigation bar using a what?
>> Speaker 3: A nav tag.
>> Jen Kramer: We have a nav tag but
also what?
>> Speaker 3: Unordered list.
>> Jen Kramer: An unordered list.
Why do we use an unordered list for
a navigation bar?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: It doesn't matter?
>> Jen Kramer: It is a list of links,
isn't it?
In the end,
the navigation bar's just a list of links.
And it really doesn't matter what
order we put those links in,
although marketing will tell
you differently, right?
It doesn't matter what order those links
go in because nobody is necessarily,
you don't have to visit the home first,
and then go to products, and
then go to services, and
you better not go out of order, right?
You can go to any of
those pages at anytime.
So an unordered list is
the right way to mark it up.
Surrounding that we have the nav tag.
See the nav tag up there on the top?
Okay.
And so nav stands for?
>> Speaker 2: Navigation.
>> Jen Kramer: Navigation.
Okay, so
your navigation bar on your web page
you're gonna mark off with the nav tag.
And that's gonna help you differentiate
this particular list from other lists on
your web page, isn't it?
Using your friend,
the descendant selector.
Okay, yes?
>> Speaker 2: If you're were gonna use
header-
>> Jen Kramer: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: Would your nav go in
the header or-
>> Jen Kramer: It
can-
>> Speaker 2: After it?
>> Jen Kramer: Or it can go after it.
>> Speaker 2: Okay, so it's either or?
>> Jen Kramer: It depends, yep.
All right, good.
So this is the way our
navigation bar looks right now.
Anybody wanna just a way that we could
start to improve how this navigation
bar looks?
Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Give it a font.
>> Jen Kramer: Let's give it a font.
[LAUGH] Always a good choice.
So let's start with the body tag,
let's give it a font.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: So
much better, are we done?
No?
Okay.
What else should we do here?
>> Speaker 2: Get rid of the bullets.
>> Jen Kramer: Let's get rid of those
bullets, those unsightly bullets.
Okay, so
we should get rid of those bullets.
Where are the bullets coming from?
>> Speaker 3: Unordered list.
>> Jen Kramer: They're coming
from the unordered list.
So we can say nav ul.
So the reason I'm putting
nav in front of my ul is
because I want the unordered list
inside of the navigation, right?
I know this web page only has a navigation
bar on it, but chances are if you code
a navigation bar in the future there
are other things on your web page, yeah?
Okay.
So, nav ul, and the way we're gonna
turn off the bullets is this,
list-style-type: none, okay,
list-style-type: none,
>> Jen Kramer: And
that will turn off the bullets, yay.
>> Jen Kramer: Something
else you wanna do?
>> Jen Kramer: Bullets went away,
anything else?
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah?
>> Speaker 2: Get rid of the underlining.
>> Jen Kramer: Get rid of the underlining,
but
before we go there let me
just put in a style for
nav Border: 1 px solid.
I always have to make them fatter so
you can see them on the screen,
3 px solid red.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay?
Is that where we want the nav bar?
You see how it's kind of indented
off the page a little bit?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Jen Kramer: Are you happy with that?
>> Speaker 3: When it's vertical,
it doesn't make any sense, right?
It's wasting all your space.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah.
>> Speaker 3: To the right of it.
>> Jen Kramer: Yeah, so are you saying
you wanna get rid of that space?
Would shove everything
on over to the left.
So how might we do that?
What style do we need, and
what do we need to change?
>> Jen Kramer: And
what happens if we have no idea?
>> Speaker 2: Google it?
>> Jen Kramer: You could Google it but
you could also figure this out, right?
Let's put on a Border of 3
px dotted blue around my ul.
Does that help tell you the answer?
>> Jen Kramer: If it doesn't,
you can keep adding borders.
Okay, nav li border:
3px dashed green.
>> Jen Kramer: So
what we got going on here, everybody?
So we've got some boxes in boxes right?
I've gone ahead and
put borders around my boxes.
So I have a nav box,
that's the red one on the outside,
then I have a blue dotted box,
that's my ul.
See how nicely that blue
dotted box fits inside?
And it goes all the way
up to the edge right?
Right inside of that nav.
And then we have our lis.
And our lis what does that tell you?
The lis start at the words and
there's a gap in between.
So what's going on here?
>> Speaker 3: You need to get rid
of the margin the left of li is
that what it this?
>> Jen Kramer: There's a margin on the li,
what's the other possibility?
>> Speaker 3: Padding on the ul.
>> Jen Kramer: Padding on the ul.
There's either padding on the ul or
margin on the li.
Does that make sense to people?
>> Jen Kramer: Need to give
you a minute to digest that.
Yes, Jenna?
>> Speaker 2: I just I'm just wondering,
in the CSS-
>> Jen Kramer: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: I would think to
do it what you just did you
would've had to do nav
ul li to get specific.
>> Jen Kramer: Mm-hm.
>> Speaker 2: But you don't, that's-
>> Jen Kramer: It depends.
It depends.
It depends on what ils
you are trying to do.
But this descended selector says nav li,
all that is saying is for
all lis descended from nav.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: And these lis are
definitely descended from nav aren't they?
Now we could also say nav ul li
there's nothing wrong with that.
>> Speaker 2: I know it
worked the same though.
>> Jen Kramer: It worked exactly the same.
>> Speaker 2: Okay.
>> Jen Kramer: Because that still
lines up with what we've got here.
But this is three characters
less in terms of typing.
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, all right, so let's
try turning off either the padding or
the margin, right?
So we can always say
padding 0 here on my ul.
>> [SOUND]
>> Jen Kramer: Now I happen to know
historically that this ul sometimes
it's been margin in some browsers,
it's been padding in other browsers.
So it's probably a healthy thing
just to throw this in too,
>> Jen Kramer: Okay, so
we've just set our padding and
our margin to 0.
>> Jen Kramer: So now everything
all lines up with our big box.
See how that works?
Okay, so what I'm gonna do now,
is I'm just gonna go ahead and
set my borders to 0.
So 0 pixels wide, in other words, they
won't show up on the web page but I still
have them, so I don't have to re-type all
of that later if I'm debugging something.
But I can still see what I'm doing,
[LAUGH] okay?
We can get rid of that code later but
we may need to refer it again for
debugging purposes.